#90DaysOfDevOps

Day 7 Task: Understanding package manager and systemctl
* What is a package manager in Linux?
In simpler words, a package manager is a tool that allows users to install, remove, upgrade, configure and manage software packages on an operating system. 
The package manager can be a graphical application like a software center or a command line tool like apt-get or pacman.

* What is a package?
A package is usually referred to an application but it could be a GUI application, command line tool or a software library (required by other software programs).
A package is essentially an archive file containing the binary executable, configuration file and sometimes information about the dependencies.

* Different kinds of package managers
Package Managers differ based on packaging system but same packaging system may have more than one package manager.
For example, RPM has Yum and DNF package managers. For DEB, you have apt-get, aptitude command line based package managers.


* Tasks
1) You have to install docker and jenkins in your system from your terminal using package managers
Ans = 1) to install docker 
        # apt-get install docker.io 
     2) to install jenkins 
        # docker pull jenkins/jenkins

Write a small blog or article to install these tools using package managers on Ubuntu and CentOS



systemctl and systemd
systemctl is used to examine and control the state of “systemd” system and service manager. 
systemd is system and service manager for Unix like operating systems(most of the distributions, not all).


* Tasks
1) check the status of docker service in your system (make sure you completed above tasks, else docker won't be installed)
Ans # systemctl status docker

2) stop the service jenkins and post before and after screenshots
check screenshot for output. 


read about the commands systemctl vs service
You can check Docker’s status with systemctl on distributions that use Systemd for service management. 
This covers the majority of popular operating systems including Debian, Ubuntu, CentOS, and Red Hat.
# sudo systemctl status docker
eg. systemctl status docker vs service docker status